Title: To understand Concept of socket
AIM: Java program for Socket Programming
THEORY:
Java Socket Programming
● Java Socket programming is used for communication between the applications
running on different JRE.
● Java Socket programming can be connection-oriented or connection-less.
● Socket and Server Socket classes are used for connection-oriented socket
programming and Datagram Socket and Datagram Packet classes are used for
connection-less socket programming.
The client in socket programming must know two information:
a. IP Address of Server, and
a. Port number.
Here, we are going to make one-way client and server communication. In this application,
client sends a message to the server, server reads the message and prints it. Here, two
classes are being used: Socket and Server Socket.
The Socket class is used to communicate client and server. Through this class, we can read
and write message. The Server Socket class is used at server-side. The accept() method of
Server Socket class blocks the console until the client is connected. After the successful
connection of client, it returns the instance of Socket at server-side.
#Socket class
A socket is simply an endpoint for communications between the machines. The Socket class
can be used to create a socket.
#ServerSocket class
The ServerSocket class can be used to create a server socket. This object is used to establish
communication with the clients.
Creating Server:
To create the server application, we need to create the instance of ServerSocket class. Here,
we are using 6666 port number for the communication between the client and server. You
may also choose any other port number. The accept() method waits for the client. If clients
connects with the given port number, it returns an instance of Socket.
ServerSocket ss=new ServerSocket(6666);
Socket s=ss.accept();//establishes connection and waits for the client
Creating Client:
To create the client application, we need to create the instance of Socket class. Here, we
need to pass the IP address or hostname of the Server and a port number. Here, we are
using "localhost" because our server is running on same system.
Socket s=new Socket("localhost",6666);
